Here it is, gang.
Rocky Point Beach.
What a groovy spot
for a beach party.
Yeah, man.
I can already taste...
those chocolate-covered
hot dogs.
Yuck! His stomach must be
made of scrap iron.
Can I help it if my first toy
was a garbage disposal?
Come on, gang.
Let's unload.
- All right.
- Okay.
I'll give Daphne the boxes.
Hurry up!
Hey, like, where's Scooby-Doo?
He's supposed to be helping me.
He went surfing.
Scooby-Doo!
Okay! Come and get it!
Oh, no!
Hey, what's with Scooby-Doo?
Zoinks!
A seagoing ghost!
Shaggy, come back!
Shaggy, come out
of that umbrella.
No. Uh-uh.
Did you see what I saw?
Yeah, we saw it...
and we're going back
to find out what it was.
Swell. I'll wait here.
And when you find out,
send me a telegram.
We won't have to.
Look! It's gone!
Whew-ee!
There's something mighty spooky
going on around here.
Yeah, and I wonder what it is.
Hey, gang, listen to this.
"Another Boat Mysteriously Vanishes.
Sheriff and Coast Guard are baffled by
the mysterious disappearances."
"Beach hermit Ebenezer Shark...
claims it was the ghost
of Captain Cutler who stole it."
- Ghost?
Do you think that's what
we saw last night?
I don't know, but maybe
that beach hermit Ebenezer Shark...
can give us a clue.
Then let's pay him a visit tonight.
Aye! I seen him
with me very own eyes.
A ghostly glow moving through the fog
just before the boats vanish.
But what makes you think
it was the ghost of Captain Cutler?
Because it was on
a foggy night such as this...
that Captain Cutler's boat
was wrecked.
It collided with one of them
fancy yachts from the marina...
sending Cutler down
to the graveyard of ships.
Huh?
But before he disappeared
into the sea...
he shouted that he would return.
So by causing the yachts
to vanish from the marina...
- Cutler's getting his revenge.
- Aye.
Huh?
Hey, it's Scooby!
Come on!
Zoinks!
It's that ghost again!
That's no ghost!
It's just Scooby-Doo!
It looks like your pooch
found me old diving suit.
Diving suit?
Aye. Now, if you want to know
any more about Cutler...
I think you'd better see his wife
up at the old lighthouse.
There's something mighty fishy
about Ebenezer Shark.
I'll say there is.
Yeah. He looks more like a barracuda.
Listen, Daph and I will stick around here
and keep an eye on old Shark.
You three 90 up to the old lighthouse
and talk to Widow Cutler.
- Old lighthouse?
- Yeah, old lighthouse.
What a creepy-looking lighthouse.
Okay, Scooby. Go knock on the door.
Right.
Look at him. What a ham.
I guess it's up to you, Velma.
It's up to all of us. Now, march!
Ladies first.
Well, come on!
WOW!
Like, this place is furnished
in early Halloween.
It's obvious. She practices witchcraft.
Hey, look at these.
What zoinky labels.
"Ear of a newt"?
Hey, what's this?
That? Oh, that's canned hyena laughs.
Look. Witchcraft Made Easy.
Very interesting.
Velma, who do I know
with long, skinny hands?
- Good evening.
- Zoinks!
Mrs. Cutler, I presume?
Aye. I was just tending the light
and didn't hear you knock.
Now, what's your problem?
It's about Captain Cutler.
We think we saw his ghost.
You did, dearie.
It was me and my witchcraft...
that brought Captain Cutler back
from his watery grave.
Then it's his ghost
that's making these yachts vanish?
Aye. But had I known
he'd take his revenge...
I'd have left him under the sea.
Yum, yum, yum. Oh, boy!
Yum, yum, yum. That's good!
Huh?
You'll pardon me
doing the wash, dearie.
Yuck! Blech!
Well, we have to go now.
Thanks for your help.
Anytime, dearie.
Anytime.
Whew! Am I glad to get
out of that scary pad.
Me too. Yuck!
Now, our next step is to find the ghost.
I think he's found us.
Look!
Come on!
After that glow!
It's in that drainpipe.
Well, it got away, so let's go.
Come here!
Scooby will go in after it.
Oh, that's different.
- Yes, you.
You're the only one that can
squeeze into that drainpipe.
Uh-uh. Too fat.
Too fat?
Would you squeeze in
for a Scooby Snack?
Uh-uh. Uh-uh! Uh-uh.
Uh-huh.
Scooby-Doo!
Like, wow!
Glowing seaweed!
It looks like you found a clue,
Scooby-Doo.
Well, Scooby-Dooby-Doo!
Did you find anything?
Here it is.
Phosphorum pyrifora.
Like, speak English.
A phosphorus-glowing seaweed...
found only in the area known
as the "graveyard of ships."
That's where Captain Cutler went down.
Then maybe that's where
we'll find his ghost...
and the answer to our mystery.
But what about Ebenezer Shark?
I don't know, but he headed for
the marina about an hour ago.
I wonder what he's up to.
There it is.
The graveyard of ships.
I don't like it.
Hey, look. A bottle.
And there's a note inside.
Well, what does it say?
No deposit, no return.
Big help.
We're getting close. Keep a sharp
lookout for anything suspicious.
Look! One of the yachts
from the marina!
Hey, there's no one aboard...
and the motor's not running.
Then, like, what's making it go?
- Ghost power.
- I was afraid you'd say that.
Come on. Let's follow it.
It's going into that cove,
and there's no way out.
Hey, something's wrong.
It's gone!
Vanished into thin air!
It's, like, weirdo!
Well, like I always say:
“Onward and downward."
To the graveyard of ships, that is.
- We're all set.
- Except for Scooby.
Oh, come down from there!
Scooby, there's nothing to be afraid of.
I'll get him down.
Howdy do!
Howdy do, yourself!
Help!
Like, wow!
What a spooky place.
It's a perfect home
for that seagoing ghost.
Well, if we're going to find
any ghosts, we'd better split up.
You guys go that way
and we'll go this way.
Okay.
Look! What's that?
Could that be Captain Cutler?
It could be, but there's
only one way to find out.
Let's go.
Well, is it him?
No. Look at that old-fashioned
diving suit.
He's been down here a hundred years.
The door!
We're trapped!
Hey, Shaggy, look.
Scuba tanks. Uh-oh!
Scooby-Doo?
Scooby-Doo, where are you?
Hey, Shaggy?
I found a Clue!
You found a clue?
Zoinks!
This cannon is loaded.
There's a fuse in it.
Fire!
Like, no fire.
I forgot matches
don't light underwater.
Hold still, Scooby!
I am!
Hey, scram! Shoo! Go!
Uh-oh.
Nice going!
We thought we'd never get out
of this creepy cabin.
Well, like, we never thought
we'd lose that ghost.
Then you saw him too?
He's the one that locked us in.
So we haven't had a chance
to find any clues.
I found a Clue!
You? You found a Clue?
Uh-huh, uh-huh. Follow me.
It's a secret storehouse
of scuba tanks.
Yeah, and all ready to use.
Things are beginning to add up.
You mean like two and two are five?
More than that.
I'd like to get
a close look at that ghost.
How can we? He's gone.
But his trail's not.
Look.
Glowing footprints.
Now all we gotta do is follow them.
The footprints vanish
right into the side of the cliff.
Well, if my sense
of direction is right...
this is the same area where that yacht
from the marina vanished.
Now what do we do?
Like, rest.
I'm pooped.
Hey! I'm sinking!
Look!
A secret passage!
You're right!
Shaggy, you're a genius!
- I am?
- Sure. Who else but you...
could've sat down on the rock
that opened the secret passage?
I thought that rock
was pretty suspicious.
Come on, gang. Let's go inside.
Wow! Wow-ee!
We're in a giant underground cavern!
Shoo! Shoo!
Man! Lookie there!
Like, get a load of those yachts.
Yeah, and they're being
painted over in different colors.
Hey, look at that yacht.
It's the one that
vanished in the cove.
And look! It's tied to a minisub.
It's just as we suspected...
and these clues prove it.
Then I guess
this wraps up our mystery.
That is, if we can wrap up the ghost.
Huh?
Not wrap him up, Shaggy,
suds him up.
Hurry up, Fred.
No telling when "glowing gruesome“
will show up.
I'm ready with the fire hose.
Okay, everybody?
I hope your contraption works.
It's a cinch.
We put a bar of soap
in this spray container.
Attach it to this fire hose...
turn on the water,
and instant suds.
And see that ramp?
The ghost comes down it,
we suds it up, he slips...
and we hose him
right over into that net.
Then we hoist him high
as a Christmas goose.
Okay, gang.
Start Operation Noisemaker.
Here he comes.
Let him have it!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!
Huh?
Scooby!
He can't see where he's going!
Huh?
Scooby, are you all right?
Uh-huh.
Now, let's see if our mystery ghost diver
is really Ebenezer Shark.
- It's not him.
- Then who is it?
I got it!
Does this seaweed help remind you
of that picture on Widow Cutler's wall?
Huh?
Captain Cutler!
Hey, listen to this, gang.
"Teenage Sleuths Solve
Boat Hijacking Mystery.
Captain Cutler and his wife
taken into custody by sheriff."
That was some plan they had.
First, spreading the phony story
about Cutler...
and then stealing the yachts
from the marina.
That night on the beach,
Cutler was storing extra scuba tanks...
in the graveyard of ships.
Yeah, but, like, his diving suit...
got covered with that
kooky glowing seaweed.
That's where the glowing ghost
story came from.
Well, that closes the mystery.
How did Scooby do that?
I guess that's another mystery.